[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: So back to this example,
I wanna see if the childNode
is a text node.
So what should I do?
>> Speaker 2: Check if it has a node type
material.
>> Justin Meyer: Exactly, so
I'll do if(childNode.nodeType === 3).
And then if it does, what do I wanna do?
>> Speaker 2: Get its text,
and add it.
>> Justin Meyer: Exactly,
how do you get its text?
That's a great question.
So I'm gonna look again
[LAUGH] on my text node here,
I can just create one in my watch.
>> Speaker 3: You can
do a console.dir.
>> Justin Meyer: If
it's the last thing.
>> Speaker 3: Or
you could just do console.dir
wrapped around that [CROSSTALK]
>> Justin Meyer: Okay.
This'll give me the object,
okay, that's cool.
So this is gonna cancel to that dir
wrapped around the whatever value
you wanna look at.
In this case, we can just look, so
there's some properties that clearly
have the text that I passed in.
There's one data.
There's one nodeValue,
I think there's probably textContent.
So there's a whole bunch, in this case,
the best one to use is nodeValue,
that'll work kinda everywhere.
So that's where I can read the text
of a node, is its nodeValue.
So how do I add the text
node's nodeValue to text?
Some people actually might not know
how to do this, it seems obvious, but
if someone wants help me out.
>> Speaker 2: Plus?
>> Justin Meyer: Plus equals, yeah.
Well, there's two ways of doing it.
Probably the easiest way is for
people to understand is
txt + childNode.nodeValue.
>> Justin Meyer: So
that's gonna get the text nodes.
>> Speaker 4: Old English.
>> Justin Meyer: Yeah,
[LAUGH] only all the old
English text nodes, yeah.
This is gonna get the text
node's nodeText and
then add it to our kind
of accumulator of text.
When you guys do recursive functions,
sometimes you'll hear there's like an
accumulator, that's kind of how I refer to
the thing that you're starting
to like add to a lot of times.
Okay, so
we've handled if there's a text node,
but if we get something
that's not a text node,
it's gonna have a nodeType of 1,
that's a normal node.
What should we do?
And this is for the big fake bonus
points,
>> Justin Meyer: Big bucks
that I will not pay out.
>> Justin Meyer: How can I make this work,
so I don't have to iterate myself?
>> Speaker 2: You can
call a getText again.
>> Justin Meyer: Yes, exactly right.
I'm gonna call getText again.
What am I gonna pass in?
>> Speaker 5: The children nodes of that
node.
>> Justin Meyer: childNode, exactly.
It's gonna return something.
>> Speaker 2: You're gonna add it to
your accumulator.
>> Justin Meyer: Exactly.
>> Justin Meyer: Okay.
>> Justin Meyer: So not only did we learn
a lot of JavaScript and
we're learning jQuery now, we've also done
a decent amount of recursive programming.
>> Speaker 6: There's a quick question
I think about,
what does that nodeType equal to 1,
what does that mean?
>> Justin Meyer: The nodeType, again,
is just a listing of, different types
of nodes have different nodeTypes.
For instance, if you have a comment,
I don't know if you guys have
ever seen a comment in html.
You can actually have HTML
comments that look like this.
I'm a comment, that is actually going to
be a child node of the body in this case,
even though there is no real body.
If I were to put that inside this ul,
the ul now would actually have,
we have four, eight,
you would have nine total nodes cuz
there would be a text node here.
A comment node, which is, I think,
is node type something, I don't know,
[LAUGH] you can actually
look up node types.
By the way, if you're wanting to
find information about the dom,
use MDN really exclusively.
Don't use, what's the other site that's?
>> Speaker 3: W3Schools?
>> Justin Meyer: Don't use W3Schools,
use MDN.
So anything you wanna ever know, type
MDN and then type in nodeType to Google.
And this is where you get actually very
well done, good technical information.
So here's all the different nodeTypes.
And they'll let you know
which ones are not, I think,
well supported, or we should-
>> Speaker 5: Comment node is
eight.
>> Justin Meyer: Yeah,
comment node is eight, a normal element
node is one, text node is three.
The only ones that you'll
typically see day to day,
element nodes, text nodes,
sometimes a comment node.
And I see document fragments a lot,
which we're not gonna hit today.
But document fragments are, if you ever
find yourself building a lot of dom, and
it's not going very fast,
look into document fragments.
Remember that word and
then learn about it later.
[LAUGH] Talk for another day.
>> Justin Meyer: Okay.
>> Speaker 7: So sure,
can we handle other nodeTypes?
>> Justin Meyer: No, we only need to go.
No, your code does not
need to handle that.
And plus, other nodeTypes won't have
children that would have text nodes.
So a comment node isn't gonna
have a child that's a text node.
So we don't need to recurse through that,
we can just ignore that.
We can ignore every other
type of text node, or
every other type of node,
which we're doing here.
So, that's what that three-in-one means,
based upon.
Now there is a flag,
sometimes people don't like
writing that because they feel,
hey, that's hard to understand.
So there is instead of writing a one or
three,
what you'll see in a lot of open
source code, people will write, was it
Node.TEXT_NODE?
>> Justin Meyer: Because Node.TEXT_NODE
returns 1, and this way,
you can kind of write your code
a little bit more clear, I think.
But I mean,
depends on what circles you're running in,
most people who do open source would just,
you'll see text node.
You'll just see a three, and
people will know that it's text node.
But if you're working with people
who might not have seen that before,
writing it out like Node.TEXT_NODE,
so it's explicit, and Node.,
what was it?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Justin Meyer: ELEMENT_NODE,
>> Justin Meyer: Might help people out
quite a bit cuz if you've
never seen this before,
it'd be super weird just to see
a three without any context.
Cool, so that's it.
That recourses,
let me step through it once.
So you can see it working.
I wanna put a debugger in here.
I'm gonna reload my breeds,
I'm going to open up the jobs for council.
And I'm going to do $, my ul,
and I'm gonna call text.
And I get an error.
[LAUGH]
>> Justin Meyer: What did I do?
>> Justin Meyer: Did I break something?
Yes, I did.
What did I break?
>> Speaker 2: Should it be else if?
>> Justin Meyer: Yes, thank you,
syntax error.
>> Justin Meyer: That's
why peer programming is awesome,
especially when you're peer
programming with like 20 people
[LAUGH] and 60 online or
whatever.
>> Justin Meyer: Okay.
>> Justin Meyer: Console, clear u,
escape u, okay.
Which I think I'll just pull this whole
thing up, but once I get the, all right.
So here, we got into this first
getText call, which I can just show.
So we're passing it.
So we get this return,
making sure it's got a first element and
that we're calling getText
with element as the ul.
Set a break point in here.
Hopefully it hits that, it did not.
Why did it not?
I'm gonna have to put
a debugger in here too.
Chrome is being weird, [LAUGH] deubber,
debugger, all right.
>> Justin Meyer: In my code, okay.
So it's gonna be called with the ul.
>> Justin Meyer: I
want to get a step over.
So el is going to be the ul.
Let me hide this console,
how do I make you go away?
>> Justin Meyer: And it's gonna start.
It's gonna create an accumulator,
and then it's gonna step into this.
And it's gonna get the first child
node of the ul, which is a text node,
you can see here cuz it has like
a return character in its data.
And we're simply gonna say that a,
its nodeType is 3.
And we're just gonna add two texts.
So we're gonna do txt =
txt + the node value,
which is a line break
followed by some space.
If we walk up to our parent call object,
we can see text is going to change
to have that text in it.
So now we're gonna hit the next element,
which is going to be an li.
Come on, it's gonna be 1,
and it's gonna step in,
so it's gonna step into this
call is function again,
which is gonna have its own accumulator
that's gonna go through all of the li.
So let me write the childNode.nodeName.
So we can just see what
we're going through here.
So now we're going to do the li's
first child, which is an anchor, and
I'm gonna set a breakpoint here, so
we can see what's being returned.
Now we're gonna hit the second li, and
we're just basically recursing down.
This is the first anchor's text,
which is going to be Doberman.
And then we're gonna kind of keep
walking up, that's gonna be returned.
How do I get to that?
Nope, one more level.
Okay, so now that value was returned,
and our text should be the first
return before the Doberman and
then the text of the anchor.
We're kind of recursing down.
>> Justin Meyer: I
don't know if I need to keep showing this.
Cuz this is kind of hard for
me to even follow.
[LAUGH] I think it's just easier to look
at the code actually, but essentially,
we're just keep calling,
going into getText and getText down.
So hopefully, that makes sense.
Let's move on,
any other questions about this?
Yeah, I'm gonna remove my debuggers.
>> Speaker 6: There was one
[INAUDIBLE] back.
What do you mean by past looping benefit
from detaching the elements from
doing the dom manipulation
on used in the same way,
like in other words,
what is the best to temporarily
remove elements from the dom?
>> Justin Meyer: So
it's best when you're manipulating them.
It can be sometimes a good idea
when you're manipulating them, but
in this case,
we're not actually manipulating anything.
We're just reading.
I'm answering this to you,
here's the question.
We're just reading property, so
we're not actually changing anything.
So we're not gonna create any reflows or
anything like that.
So it's best not to be removing it or
anything like that, especially forget.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: In my text function,
I'm doing everything that
we're currently doing, but
I'm getting an error.
>> Justin Meyer: Okay.
>> Speaker 5: On the test page,
it says the appendChild is not a function.
>> Justin Meyer: Let me make sure my
test is passing, that I didn't
just give you guys some bad code,
and then we'll take a look.
So my test is working.
It says appendChild is not a function,
down in this?
>> Speaker 5: Yep,
right there where we have appendChild.
>> Justin Meyer: What is el look like?
So if you step in,
if you were to put a debugger,
right, or like a console.log(el),
is that undefined?
And then if that is,
what I would do is console.log(this)
to make sure that there's like an li,
right,
I'll show you what mine looks
like when the tests run.
So you can, by the way, for these tests,
you can just click on the individual
tests and run just that.
>> Speaker 5: Span.
>> Justin Meyer: So mine will look like,
>> Justin Meyer: This.
Yes, span is gonna have,
looks like the first time it's called,
it's gonna have a collection
of one item that's a span, and
then it's gonna look apparently like that.
Is that what yours looks like,
you're still getting an error?
>> Speaker 5: Mine is just an empty span,
I think.
>> Justin Meyer: An empty span.
Okay, let's do the same type of thing,
like I'll help you and
if it's like something else, I think other
people would have had a problem with,
I'll come back after the next exercise and
explain it.